Expertise, Memory, & EIA with other misc tweaks and timing (#59)
data-lessons/instructor-training: _episodes/09-eia.md

---
title: "Equity, Inclusion, and Accessibility"
block: "Creating a Positive Learning Environment"
teaching: 20
exercises: 20
questions:
- "Why are equity, inclusion, and accessibility important?"
- "What can I do enhance equity, inclusion, and accessibility in my workshop?"
objectives:
- "Identify instructional strategies that are consistent with universal design."
- "Recognize systemic factors that can distract and demotivate learners."
- "Understand the role of The Carpentries Code of Conduct in maintaining an explicitly inclusive environment."
keypoints:
- "Inclusivity is a key attribute of a positive learning environment."
- "Universal design benefits everyone."
---

### The Carpentries Core Values

> In 2019, The Carpentries formed a task force that worked with our community to identify 9 [Core Values](core-values), things that we do, things that we are, and things that we champion. Many of these highlight our community-wide commitment to equity, inclusion, and accessibility. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In 2019, The Carpentries formed a task force that worked with our community to identify 9 [Core Values](core-values), things that we do - things that we are, and things that we champion. Many of these highlight our community-wide commitment to equity, inclusion, and accessibility. 
```

> ## Discuss The Carpentries Core Values
>
> 1. Take a moment to read through the Core Values on this page: https://carpentries.org/values/
> 2. Choose one core value that resonates with you. How might this value be used to guide choices or decisions in 
> a workshop or in your local community more broadly?
>
> This exercise should take about 5 minutes.

> {: .challenge}

Reviewer 2: I like the core values activity, although I worry the question we are asking may be a bit vague or intangible. Could it we phrase it to something like, "What is a decision you might make in a workshop that would look different if you were actively considering the core value you chose?" or something like that?

### Inclusivity is a Core Value

**Inclusivity** is a policy of including people who might otherwise be excluded or marginalized.
A learning environment may be positive for some yet still be experienced as exclusive or marginalizing for others. Inclusivity is at the heart 
of [The Carpentries Core Values](https://carpentries.org/values/) -- we hope that this is a passion you share! In this section we will 
discuss the challenges, opportunities, and continuing effort involved in making your workshop a positive experience for all.

> 

Reviewer 2: I do feel like there is a bit of a disconnect between the opening about inclusivity moving into the discussion about accessibility. I do feel like it could benefit from a transition. Ultimately all of the subsections are about addressing equity issues in order to create inclusivity. So I could see moving equity up and using it as that transition. Maybe something like, "There are many teaching practices that make your classroom more inclusive some of which we talked about earlier (ie the positive classroom environment stuff). However, in this section we want to talk about some of the systemic barriers that result in members of some groups being excluded. The fact that some groups face barriers that others do not means we cannot take a one size fits all approach to inclusivity. Consider the different between equity and equality.... "

Author: I think I addressed this? If not we can take another stab at it after merging.

emotions such as uncertainity, confusion, annoyance or anger by those receiving the requests.  

By contrast, "universal design" means creating something to be maximally usable by all people 
without additional changes. 
A good example of universal design is [curb cuts](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Curb_cut) 
and sidewalk ramps. While they were originally created to make it easier for 
wheelchair users to move around, they proved to be equally helpful to people with strollers and grocery carts. 

## Universal Design in Learning (UDL)

In the 1990s, the Center for Applied Special Technology (CAST) brought Universal Design 
into Education with the Universal Design in Learning (UDL) Framework. 
UDL places responsibility for accessibility on the course rather than on the learner. 
It states that the most inclusive approach to education is to design instruction with diverse learners in mind from the beginning.

UDL is not about finding the one, best way to teach everyone. 
The key to UDL is creating redundancies such that learners have multiple options in how they: 
1. receive
2. engage, and
3. share information.  

> ## Activity: Applying Universal Design in Your Teaching
> 

> > Consider some of the teaching tools strategies we have discussed so far in this workshop, or others you have observed in your experience. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> Consider some of the teaching tools and strategies we have discussed so far in this workshop, or others you have observed in your experience. 
```

{: .challenge}

While it may not be possible to anticipate all needs,
it *is* possible to get a good working structure in place
without any knowledge of what specific disabilities people might have.
Having some accommodations prepared also demonstrates care, helping 
learners to trust that additional requests are likely to be well received.

If you are playing the host role (or part of it), note that our [host template](https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/workshop_administration/email_templates.html#email-learners-before-workshop)
includes an inquiry regarding accessibility needs. However, be aware that **many 
people will not feel comfortable requesting accommodations in advance**, or at all if it can be avoided.

> For example, a participant with minor hearing loss may simply hope that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, a participant who is hard of hearing may simply hope that
```

Reviewer: "hearing loss" is not preferred terminology in the Deaf community

> the workshop will be loud enough for them to get by. Taking steps to make 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
instructors will speak loudly enough for them to hear. Taking steps to make 
```

your workshop maximally accessible can relieve your participants of the need to disclose personal information.

# From Accomodation to Universal Design 
Accomodation means changing things to serve an individual with a demonstrated need. 
However, **accomodation puts the onus on the indvidual with the need** to 
have to disclose their disability and ask for accomodations. Reluctance to 
do so is understandable: requests for accomodation are often met with negative 
emotions such as uncertainity, confusion, annoyance or anger by those receiving the requests.  

By contrast, "universal design" means creating something to be maximally usable by all people 
without additional changes. 
A good example of universal design is [curb cuts](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Curb_cut) 
and sidewalk ramps. While they were originally created to make it easier for 
wheelchair users to move around, they proved to be equally helpful to people with strollers and grocery carts. 

## Universal Design in Learning (UDL)

In the 1990s, the Center for Applied Special Technology (CAST) brought Universal Design 
into Education with the Universal Design in Learning (UDL) Framework. 

> UDL places responsibility for accessibility on the course rather than on the learner. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
UDL places responsibility for accessibility on the course designer rather than on the learner. 
```

It states that the most inclusive approach to education is to design instruction with diverse learners in mind from the beginning.

UDL is not about finding the one, best way to teach everyone. 
The key to UDL is creating redundancies such that learners have multiple options in how they: 
1. receive
2. engage, and
3. share information.  

> ## Activity: Applying Universal Design in Your Teaching
> 
> Consider some of the teaching tools and strategies we have discussed so far in this workshop, or others you have observed in your experience. 

> > Would any of these meet UDL goals of providing multiple options for learners? 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> How do these meet UDL goals of providing multiple options for learners? 
```

Carpentries communications channels can be a good place to ask for advice more broadly.

> ## Every Little Bit Counts
>
> Looking at people who work with disability and accessibility, it's
> easy to be overwhelmed by all the different ways we could make
> instruction more accessible. 
>
> *   *It is ok not to do everything at once.*
>     We do not ask learners in our workshops to adopt all our best practices or tools in one go,
>     but instead to add things gradually at a rate they can manage.
>     Similarly, try to build in accessibility habits when preparing for workshops
>     through reflective practice, adding something new each time.
> *   *Do the easy things first.*
>     There are plenty of ways to make workshops more accessible
>     that are both quick to accomplish and minimal in demands on attention:
>     font choices, text size,
>     checking in advance that your room is accessible via an elevator or ramp, etc.
{: .callout}

For a short checklist of things to keep in mind for in-person workshop locations, see [the accessibility checklist](https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/hosts_instructors/workshop_needs.html#accessibility) 

> in The Carpentries Handbook. If anything seems to be missing, contributions are welcome!

Reviewer: Just a note that it will be nice to add a similar checklist for online workshops after we get recommendations from Understood.

## Systemic Exclusion

As Instructors, many aspects of our classroom environment are within our control or influence. 
However, the world is a complicated place, and there will always be extraneous factors that 
contribute to demotivation and add to cogitive load. These vary from person to person, but 
members of certain groups often carry a heavier load due to systemic forces that disproportionately 
impact them. What we can control, in this case, is our own awareness of the challenges these forces 
present to teaching and learning. As with other demotivation pitfalls, we can also
think carefully about the language that we use and how we interact with our learners to avoid reinforcing systemic bias.

# Stereotypes

We all use stereotypes, and for good reason. They serve a cognitive purpose. 

> One study suggests we encounter more than 34 gigabytes of information everyday. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One study suggests we encounter more than 34 gigabytes of information every day. 
```

That is more information than we could ever process, so our brains use shortcuts. 
What an expert thing to do! Stereotypes are one of those shortcuts. As with other models, 
they are all wrong... but some are dangerous.

## What are stereotypes?
Stereotypes are an established feature of human social cognition, in which a set of characteristics 
is associted with members of a group. Sterotypes:
- may be explicit (conscious and deliberate) or implicit (unconscious and automatic)
- guide what we notice about people 
- guide how we interpret people's behaviors
- can facilitate quick judgements in appropriate situations (e.g. stopping a child from driving a car)
- can lead to systematically negative attitudes and behaviors towards members of certain groups 

Stereotypes are dangerous when they are explicit, but they are especially hazardous when they are implicit. This 
means that the people holding them may not be aware of them, even though their perceptions are guided by them. 

**When Instructors have stereotypes about learners**, this may lead them to:
    - call attention to differences unnecessarily
    - give more or less attention to certain learners

>     - respond to questions with a different tone for certain learners

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - respond to questions differently for certain learners
```

> **When learners experience stereotypes about them**, they may:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**When learners experience stereotypes about themselves**, they may:
```

learning environment is our [Code of Conduct]({{ site.coc }}).

To make clear what is expected,
all participants in our workshops are required to abide by the
[Code of Conduct]({{ site.coc }}).
 Its details are important,
but the most important thing about it is that it exists:
knowing that we have rules
tells people a great deal about our values
and about what kind of learning experience they can expect. This creates 
an environment that is *explicitly inclusive* and supports safe focus 
on learning.

We will discuss the Code of Conduct in greater detail tomorrow.

## Looking for More? Want to Contribute?
The Carpentries is actively working on improving our content and practices with respect to equity, inclusion, and accessibility. If you are interested in 
being involved in the development of this content, please let us know! Contributions to this page may be made on GitHub (click the "improve this page" link 

> at the top), join our #accessibility channel on The Carpentries Slack, or get in touch with us by emailing team@carpentries.org.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
at the top), though our #accessibility channel on The Carpentries Slack, or by emailing team@carpentries.org.
```

and add link to Slack org
